# image-gallery
displays images from the Getty API

Author: Nicole Scherm
Updated: 4/8/17

== Overview ==

This is a prototype for a simple, responsive website that displays a gallery of images from Getty Images based on user input.

I focused on keeping the site as simple as reasonably possible. I chose to use Bootstrap and jQuery because I felt they offered a lot of usuable features and simplified and substanitally reduce coding. On the other hand, I didn't want to add libraries unnecesarily, so I chose not to use any css preprocessors or other JavaScript frameworks. Most of the code is uncommented because I think the app is fairly straightforward and self-explanatory.

== Search ==

The search field takes user input from the text input box and sends a request to the Getty Images API. It sends requests with a single search term comprised entirely of aphabetical characters. 

== Results Gallery ==

The results gallery shows image results in a grid and displays up to 24 results. The user can click on an image thumbnail to display a larger version of the image in an overlay. If it has no images to show, the gallery will either prompt the user to search for images or display an error message.

I specifically chose to limit the gallery to 24 results (because it displays nicely in rows of 2, 3 and 4). Increasing the results limit raises questions of how many to display at once, when to show additional results and how to display them, etc. which quickly gets outside the scope of this project. 

Since the website is specific designed to work with the Getty Images API results, I didn't bother to specify parameters like the max height for image thumbnails because the results already limit image size. However, I did take off the optional url parameters when displaying the image in the overlay so that it would display larger, and there I did limit the image height.

I used the Bootstrap modal to create the overlay that appears when a user clicks on an image thumbnail, as it was quick and simple to code.

== Spell Checker ==

When the user clicks the button to find images, the spell checker automatically removes non-alphabetic characters and corrects for mistyped vowels. If the spell checker doesn't recognize the input word, it attempts to replace it with a known word. It selects the first known word of the same length with matching consonants.

I decided to create a list of known words and check the user search input against it. If the input doesn't match any of the known words, then the spell checker attempts to replace it with a known word. Since it isn't important which correction is selected if multiple corrections are possible, I used the first acceptible replacement. If no replacement is found, then the request is made with the input word.

The "dictionary" of known words is based on the list of the 5000 most frequently used English words created by Brigham Young University, based on the Corpus of Contemporary American English. It can be found at http://www.wordfrequency.info/intro.asp. Looking at the examples in the instructions, I felt that a list of common would be appropriate  - a complete dictionary would be substantially more time consuming to implement and might accept uncommon words that should be considered typos.

I took the list of words and turned it into a array of strings (using my text editor). I then wrote a function to filter out unwanted entries (words with hyphens, repeats, etc) and return a two-dimensional array, with words grouped into arrays by word length. This code can be seen in the dictionary-formatting.js file, and is not part of the site. I used JavaScript because it was a fairly straightforward task, and I was already writing Javascript and wanted the output to be in JavaScript. The array of words generated by the function is included in the script file that is run on the website. Although not necessary, using a two-dimensional array cut down on the number of words to search by limiting comparisions to words of the same lentgh. I decided to store the "dictionary" in an array because it was a simple way to store a fairly small amount of data.
With a more complicated spell checker or more words, I would considering storing it in a different format.

== Error Handling ==

I tried to take into account cases in which a request would not return results, such as empty search term, and term that returns no image data, and an error with the request to the API. Also, I chose to limit searches to single words. The site removes leading and trailing whitespace, and directs the user to enter a single word if any other spaces are found in the user input.

For usability, I created simple messages to display when no search results returned, or if it encountered an error, so it would be apparent to user why there were no images.

== Testing and further work ==

Aside from testing the functionality of the website, I tried running the page on screens of different sizes (including simulated mobile screens) and different browsers (Chrome, Safari, FireFox). Given more time, I would test the website more extensively and on other browsers (such as Internet Explorer). I might also consider security of the website if it were used more widely.
